README.md, before:

# Ruby on Rails assessment

## 1. Technologies used:

- Docker
- Ruby 3.2.2
- Rails 7.1.1
- PostgreSQL
- ElasticSearch

## 2. Structure

![db structure](docs/swivel-rails-db.drawio.png)

This assessment has been broken into a list of tasks, which has been listed below. MVC pattern has been used as the primary pattern the assessment is developed on, and provides an JSON based API. Which supports nested resources. Elasticsearch would be used to implement a standaized search. OOP concepts are used as the core. 

For the ease of the reviewer I have included a Postman collection.

## 3. Tasks

1. [x] Build docker container which includes the above stack
    1. Setup initial ruby image based container
    2. Integrate PostgreSQL
    3. Integrate ElasticSearch

2. [x] Develop `verticals`
    1. Develop model
    2. Develop controller / API end points
    3. specs

3. [x] Develop `categories`
    1. Develop model
    2. Develop controller / API end points
    3. specs

4. [x] Develop `courses`
    1. Develop model
    2. Develop controller / API end points
    3. specs

5. [x] Integrate ElasticSearch to `search#search` 

6. [x] Update seed

7. [x] Implement authentication layer
    1. setup devise with tokens for authentication, signup and login would provide a bearer authorization token, which would be used with subsequent API calls.
    2. authorize API


Implementing oauth would have to be stopped due to the following reasons, without which it would prevent me from completing this assessment.

1. To implement the entire flow a proper frontend is needed.
2. The frontend would contain the major portion of work with regard to oauth integration.
3. Whilst the backend would only store that information, such as uid, provider, name and avatar, and a few calls.


## 4. Setup

Since docker has been configued to setup the enviorement use the following command:

```docker-compose up --build```

## 5. Answers for future implementations

### How does your solution perform? 

The code and the Database has been optimized and where necessary indexes are created. However there are more oppertunities to improve the solution such as refactor the `author` into a seperate class. 

### How does your solution scale?

Currently the Database has been developed to allow indexing and with Elasticsearch it will use NoSQL to improve the search. If the solution is to handle large amount of imformation, the hardware layer can be scaled to improve the speed. To that point since docker has been implemented, with Kubernetes the scalling can be automated.


### What would you improve next?
1. Create an `author` model and move the author out of the `course` model
2. `course` could have multiple `categories`
3. Optimize serializer to only include required fields
4. Optimize Elasticsearch, so that Enums such as the state would be properly worded.

touched

Commit message:

Oauth2 (#7)
* doorkeeper implemented
* integrated json-serializer
* updated specs

README.md, after:

# Ruby on Rails assessment

## 1. Technologies used:

- Docker
- Ruby 3.2.2
- Rails 7.1.1
- PostgreSQL
- ElasticSearch

## 2. Structure

![db structure](docs/swivel-rails-db.drawio.png)

This assessment has been broken into a list of tasks, which has been listed below. MVC pattern has been used as the primary pattern the assessment is developed on, and provides an JSON based API. Which supports nested resources. Elasticsearch would be used to implement a standaized search. OOP concepts are used as the core. 

For the ease of the reviewer I have included a Postman collection.

## 3. Tasks

1. [x] Build docker container which includes the above stack
    1. Setup initial ruby image based container
    2. Integrate PostgreSQL
    3. Integrate ElasticSearch

2. [x] Develop `verticals`
    1. Develop model
    2. Develop controller / API end points
    3. specs

3. [x] Develop `categories`
    1. Develop model
    2. Develop controller / API end points
    3. specs

4. [x] Develop `courses`
    1. Develop model
    2. Develop controller / API end points
    3. specs

5. [x] Integrate ElasticSearch to `search#search` 

6. [x] Update seed

7. [x] Implement authentication layer
    1. setup devise with tokens for authentication, signup and login would provide a bearer authorization token, which would be used with subsequent API calls.
    2. authorize API


Implementing oauth would have to be stopped due to the following reasons, without which it would prevent me from completing this assessment.

1. To implement the entire flow a proper frontend is needed.
2. The frontend would contain the major portion of work with regard to oauth integration.
3. Whilst the backend would only store that information, such as uid, provider, name and avatar, and a few calls.


## 4. Setup

Since docker has been configued to setup the enviorement use the following command:

```docker-compose up --build```

## 5. Usage

Since OAuth has been implemented you will first need to get application credentials (client application has been created using the seeds), which you can do using the following:

1. access the enviorenment using `rails c`
2. get the `client_id` using `Doorkeeper::Application.first.uid`
3. get the `client_secret` using `Doorkeeper::Application.first.secret`

Use the `client_id` and `client_secret` along with the user credentials to login, please refer the following image:
![oauth login](docs/oauth-login.png)

Use the `access_token` to access the rest of the API

A Postman collection has been included for easier access.

## 6. Answers for future implementations

### How does your solution perform? 

The code and the Database has been optimized and where necessary indexes are created. However there are more oppertunities to improve the solution such as refactor the `author` into a seperate class. 

### How does your solution scale?

Currently the Database has been developed to allow indexing and with Elasticsearch it will use NoSQL to improve the search. If the solution is to handle large amount of imformation, the hardware layer can be scaled to improve the speed. To that point since docker has been implemented, with Kubernetes the scalling can be automated.


### What would you improve next?
1. Create an `author` model and move the author out of the `course` model
2. `course` could have multiple `categories`
3. Optimize serializer to only include required fields
4. Optimize Elasticsearch, so that Enums such as the state would be properly worded.

touched
